---
layout: default
title: NDVI Metrics
---
h1. NDVI metrics

1. ndvi data file is produced by directly stacking 42 files of one year together, then converting data from -2000 to 10000 into 0 to 200. 

2010_oneyear_layer_subset_good_0_200_set_snow_cloud_n4000
2010_oneyear_layer_subset_good_0_200_set_snow_cloud_n4000.hdr

2. smoothed ndvi data file is produced by applying smooth algorithm.

2010_multiyear_layer_stack_0_200_set_snow_cloud_n4000_smooth
2010_multiyear_layer_stack_0_200_set_snow_cloud_n4000_smooth.hdr

3.The NDVI metrics data file is a 12-band geo-coded image. The 12 bands are onp, onv, endp,endv, durp, maxp,maxv,ranv, rtup, rtdn,tindvi, and flag. Detail descriptions of these items are

onp--time of onset of greenness (day),
onv--NDVI value at onset,
endp--time of end of greenness (day),
endv--NDVI value at end,
durp--duration of greenness (days),
maxp--time of maximum NDVI (day),
maxv--maximum NDVI value,
ranv--range of NDVI value,
rtup--rate of greenup (/day),
rtdn--rate of senescence (/day),
tindvi--time-integrated NDVI between onset and end, 
flag-- indication if above values are valid, 0--bad values, 1--good values.

example files:

2010_multiyear_layer_stack_0_200_set_snow_cloud_n4000_metrics
2010_multiyear_layer_stack_0_200_set_snow_cloud_n4000_metrcs.hdr

By Jiang Zhu 


Questions already asked by some users at AKSM -- perhaps integrate into a FAQ for docs.gina/ndvi.
What are known errors/issues with the source data?
Of those known issues, will any of them be solved by the newly reprocessed EMODIS archive?

A: In current release data, I found the ndvi data is not in the range -2000 to 10000 as EMODIS guys promised in their documentation. There are some values even below -2000. Another data issue is: Ndvi data exist in the pixels where are marked as snow,cloudy,or negative reflectance. I think if the pixels are snow,cloudy, or negative reflectance, the related NDVI values should be artificial filling values. The EMODIS guys promise they will fix the problems in their new release version (in coming March). 
What algorithms/tools were used to generate the metrics?

         A: I didn’t get algorithms from NPS Southwest Alaska. They gave me a smooth algorithm without documentation. It is hard to use.  They didn’t give me the ndvi metrics algorithm. At this situation, I programed by myself with IDL to finish the smooth and metrics algorithms.  The smooth algorithm was based on Swets, D.L. It is a weight linear regression method. The metrics algorithm was realized based on Reed, Bradley C. It compares the time-series data with backwards/foreward auto-regressive moving average to check the cross points to decide the onset and end points. Please refer to: 
Swets, D.L, Reed,B.c., Rowland,J.D., Marko,S.E., 1999, A weighted least-squares approach to temporal NDVI smoothing, Proceedings of the 1999 ASPRS Annual Conference, Portland, Oregon, pp. 526-536
Reed,Bradly C., Brown, Jesslyn F., VanderZee, Darrel,Loveland, Thomas R., Merchant, James W. & Ohlen, Donald O.,Measuring phenological variability from satellite imagery, Journal of Vegetation Science 5:703-714,1994
